samples: matter: added lock credentials manager module (#15070)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/matter/lock/README.rst

Depending on the IPv6 network technology in use, the following storage backends are supported by default to store the PIN code credential:

* Matter over Thread - secure storage backend (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_SECURE_STORAGE_BACKEND` Kconfig option enabled by default).
* Matter over Wi-Fi - non-secure storage backend (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_SETTINGS_STORAGE_BACKEND` Kconfig option enabled by default).

You can learn more about the |NCS| Matter persistent storage module and its configuration in the :ref:`ug_matter_persistent_storage` section of the :ref:`ug_matter_device_advanced_kconfigs` documentation.

The application supports multiple door lock users and PIN code credentials.
The following Kconfig options control the limits of the users and credentials that can be added to the door lock:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LOCK_MAX_NUM_USERS` - Maximum number of users supported by the door lock.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LOCK_NUM_CREDENTIALS_PER_USER` - Maximum number of credentials that can be assigned per one user.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LOCK_NUM_CREDENTIALS_TYPE` - Maximum number of credentials in total.

> * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LOCK_MAX_CREDENTIAL_LENGTH` - Maximum length of the single credential.

Author: It's in bytes, I will add this info.

.. matter_door_lock_sample_remote_testing_end

Door lock credentials
=====================

> The application supports PIN code credentials.

Reviewer: Are we able to support other types of credentials or only PIN codes? I mean, I know that application uses pin codes, but the credentials module is able to support other types as well, right? If so, maybe we should write it somewhere that we present only pin codes in our app, but it could be also changed to use something different.

Author: Sure, good point.

> =====================
> By default the application supports only PIN code credentials.
> Additionally, it is possible to implement support for other door lock credential types with the use of ``CredentialsManager`` module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=====================

By default, the application supports only PIN code credentials, but it is possible to implement support for other door lock credential types by using the ``CredentialsManager`` module.
```
Should the rest of the description in this section be made more generic? Alternatively, I can try to reshuffle the first few sentences so that it's clear that the rest of the information is specifically about the default implementation.

.. matter_door_lock_sample_remote_testing_end

Door lock credentials
=====================

By default, the application supports only PIN code credentials, but it is possible to implement support for other door lock credential types by using the ``CredentialsManager`` module.

> Additionally, it is possible to implement support for other door lock credential types with the use of ``CredentialsManager`` module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

To upgrade the device firmware, complete the steps listed for the selected method in the :doc:`matter:nrfconnect_examples_software_update` tutorial of the Matter documentation.

.. _matter_lock_sample_remote_access_with_pin:

Testing remote access with PIN code credential
==============================================

.. note::

>    You can test the PIN code credential support with any Matter compatible controller, however in the following steps the `CHIP Tool` controller is used as an example.

Author: `steps us` -> `steps use` I suppose :)

To test this feature, complete the following steps:

#. Build the door lock application, for instance the ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` board:

   .. code-block:: console

      west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp

#. |connect_terminal_ANSI|
#. Program the application to the kit using the following command:

   .. code-block:: console

      west flash --erase

#. Wait until the device boots.
#. Commission an accessory to the Matter network with steps described in the `Commissioning the device`_ section.

> #. Enforce the door lock to require PIN code for remote operations:

Reviewer 2: Yes, yes it should. And this is why you should always double-check what us tech writers ask you to put in there :D

   .. code-block:: console

      ./chip-tool doorlock write require-pinfor-remote-operation 1 1 1 --timedInteractionTimeoutMs 5000

#. Add the door lock user with the following ``CHIP Tool`` command:

   .. code-block:: console

      ./chip-tool doorlock set-user 0 1 Home 0 1 0 0 1 1 --timedInteractionTimeoutMs 5000

#. Add the example ``12345678`` PIN code credential to the ``Home`` user:

   .. code-block:: console

      ./chip-tool doorlock set-credential 0 '{"credentialType": 1, "credentialIndex": 1}' 12345678 1 null null 1 1 --timedInteractionTimeoutMs 5000

#. Unlock the door lock with the given PIN code:

   .. code-block:: console

      ./chip-tool doorlock unlock-door 1 1 --PINCode 12345678 --timedInteractionTimeoutMs 5000

#. Reboot the device.

> #. Wait until the device it rebooted and attached back the the Matter network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Wait until the device it rebooted and attached back to the Matter network.
```

To upgrade the device firmware, complete the steps listed for the selected method in the :doc:`matter:nrfconnect_examples_software_update` tutorial of the Matter documentation.

.. _matter_lock_sample_remote_access_with_pin:

Testing remote access with PIN code credential
==============================================

.. note::
   You can test the PIN code credential support with any Matter compatible controller.
   The following steps use the CHIP Tool controller as an example.

After building the sample and programming it to your development kit, complete the following steps to test remote access with PIN code credential:

1. |connect_kit|
#. |connect_terminal_ANSI|
#. Wait until the device boots.
#. Commission an accessory to the Matter network by following the steps described in the `Commissioning the device`_ section.
#. Make the door lock require a PIN code for remote operations:

   .. code-block:: console

      ./chip-tool doorlock write require-pinfor-remote-operation 1 1 1 --timedInteractionTimeoutMs 5000

> #. Add the example ``Home`` door lock user with the following CHIP Tool command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Add the example ``Home`` door lock user:
```
Just noticed this is the only one that specifies CHIP Tool in the steps, so might as well take it out.

Author: I did it on purpose to indicate that it's the chip-tool controller being used as an example. But that's fair to remove this part to be consistent. We mention above that the chip-tool will be used anyway.

   .. code-block:: console

>       ./chip-tool doorlock set-user 0 1 Home 0 1 0 0 1 1 --timedInteractionTimeoutMs 5000

Reviewer: I know that user may read the command description, but arguments like '0 1 0 1 0 0 1 1' look a little bit confusing :)

Author: Ok, I will add some explanation with cooperation with @wiba-nordic .
